pattern recogntion type things

Large and obvious patterns

Is the camera gain detection information reproducable?
	gain settings questions in general
	should be evenly transformed across rgb

future experiments
	flow cam (microscopic pictures)


light intensity

chlorofil concentration


Dr. Hill filters out the solar spectrum


snow from storm AND blown in
	could extrapolate atmospheric data from reanalysis

can get ice concentration from satelite ( course resolution)
can get wind speed
can get atmospheric pressure

NOAA station at Barrow might have similar conditions (lots of atmospheric measurements)

predicting biomass is key
light data with camera would be good for modeling, followed by nutrients
temperature is not a driver of biomass activity

chlorophil (expensive) measured with flourometer.
better to just measure light.

useful to compare all buoys together
	eg. same light different growth
	possible to predict what was different

sometimes buoys can get salinity readings.

Key questions:
	is light switching on earlier in the year? ( delta ice depth, snow thickness ==> more 	light?)

simulate absent data from past years.


light measurement:
	if measuring indiv. wavelengths: photons
	if measuring photosynthetically available information: watts

chlorophil mesaurement:
	mm cph / cubic meter

salinity
	psu

temp
	C


No big difference in equipment between the experiments.


difference in buoys: where they went/drifted to. sensors are consistent


melt pond lets through more light than plain ice; "a window"
	an indication that the ice beneath is going to melt out
	sometimes you wouldnt get enough light for biomass growth til melt ponds gave out

images: bright spots in ice are melt ponds: don't necesarily need to account for them outside of seeing them in the imagery.


Dr. Hill is interested in phytoplankton as a measure of productivity of a system
easy to see from space
easy to measure in the water

you can look at how much light theyre getting
you can observe them as a light sink, blocking light further down the water column.
light is the big thing

different over time?
do we see earlier phytoplankton blooms becasue more light, thinner ice?
do they adapt? or are less flexible?
do subartic species replace them?

change in timing? magnitude? has long reaching effects on the food chain.
case in point: snow crabs in the bearing sea.

-----------------------------------------------

Buoy#1, Buoy#3-4, Buoy#6-8

4 - sensor damage but camera okay

black line - cable

Shading - snow depth (early on exclusively so)

Green - chlorophyl increase

July, August - lighter shading is melted ice ponds (lets through more light) [melt ponds]

Late late - shading is ice flows


Pic excel files:
each pic has identifier. sometimes more than one pic per day. usually one around solar noon

November reduces picture frequencies

Data excel files:
data comes in hourly
SST is actually air temperature
ignore column with -9(9)
Pay attention to ECO_ [ECO Triplet @ 5m (camera at 20m)]

ECO_695Chl is the plankton measurement

Daily Chl fluctuations (intrument functions on flouressence) Plankton absorbs equipments light and uses it for photosynthesis.
Higher flouressence during the day vs night. If it's dark and you shine a light at it it's just gonna eat the light.

Probably makes sense to only use midday. maybe take a limited average couple hours around solar noon


OCR is light intensity. measured at 3 wavelengths

presspod - depth

kd is calculated - attenuation between two sensors (how much is absorbed on the way between two light sensors)

Columns BA and BE - there is corolation, applied to other sensors to infer Chl

March and April not great for sub-5m sensors; sensors do not read accuartely

Goal is to place camera closer to ice


1/20/23

How the thinner arctic sea ice affects how much light makes it through the ice.

Majority of the ice pack is now seasonal ice; 1m thick. Depending on region, little tonknow snow (formed late in winter; not much precipitation)

This means more light getting through.

Bouys provide 6-12 months of data.

Readings: Salinity, Temperature, Light intensity, Phytoplankton levels, Photos.

In 2018, already enough light in march to allow ice algae to grow; drastically earlier than historical readings.

Every day, camera takes a picture of the underside of the ice; auto-adjusts gain.

Funded by Arctic Observance Network; interested more in collection than analysis.




